Hi there. This is Chris and I am
going to show you how to log on
to the NIF computers from a Windows PC.
I happen to have Windows 10, so I'm
actually gonna show you how to do two
different methods for logging on. If you happen
to have Windows 10, the easiest way to
log on is to install the Bash Ubuntu
subsystem into Windows. And to do that, you
actually go to this website right here and,
it will tell you exactly how to do
that. I've already done that because it does
take a little bit of time. But once
you do that, you should you should be
able to install that and then you'll be
able to use the bash terminal which is
very similar to the terminal that is actually
built into the the myth computers itself. So
this is the method I would suggest if
you happen to be on Windows 10 this
is a great way to do it. What
you do when you have it loaded you
just go to the search and you type
bash b a s h or Ubuntu and
when you click on that it pulls up
a window that looks like this and from
here we are going to use the SSH
command which is the secure shell and it's
built into the window here and you just
type SSH and then your SUNET ID, mine
happens to be CGreg and you type the
@symbolandmiff.stanford.edu and you hit enter. And the first
time you connect it will ask you if
you are sure you want to continue connecting
and you should type yes and then it
will ask for your password. And as I'm
typing my password, notice that it's not actually
being shown on the screen. This is a
security feature, it allows you to type your
password without somebody who's looking over your shoulder
to see it and, it's a nice feature.
Anyway, you type that in and then it
brings you down to, the actual prompt. We
happen to log into myth nine here and,
being logged into myth nine doesn't really matter,
it just happened to log us in there.
And then from here you can type all
the different commands that you'll learn in other
videos like c d one zero seven changes
me into the one zero seven directory, l
s lists the files, etcetera. Couple commands you
might wanna know, when you're here, the clear
command will clear the screen. The reset command
will clear the screen in a little lower
level. So if the if the colors on
your screen get a little bit screwed up,
it will do that. In fact, in here,
it looks like it actually changed the size
of the window like that as well. So
that's that. If you wanna log out, you
just type log out and then enter or
you could hold down control and click the
d key. So let me try that. If
I hold down control and click d, it
will actually type log out for me and
log me out. Okay? So that's how you
use login. As I said, this is the
preferred method because it's once you set it
up, it's all built into Windows and it's
kinda nice. You can do that, but there's
another way too. If you're not on a
Windows 10 computer, you you have to do
this method. But there is a program that
you can download for free from Stanford called
Secure CRT. And, you go to this website
here and it actually, then you just download
it. You do your, your regular SUNET login
and you download it. Most people will use
the the 64 bit. If you happen to
be on a really old Windows version, you
may need the 32 bit, but the 64
bit should work for people. I have also
already installed that. And if you use that
program, you just type secure CRT and then,
you click on it and a little window
comes up. It actually prepopulates a couple of,
different Stanford campuses, Stanford campus computer systems. We
are gonna use a third one, called NIF.
So what you do is you click on
new session here. This is the only time
you'll have to do this. And, you can
just use the regular defaults here and click
next and the host name is going to
be nif dot stanford dot edu. You can
leave the port the same, no firewall, and
then you type your username. Okay and that's
it and then for the secure FX protocol
that's fine too and then you can just
leave it at myth.stanford. If you want and
there you go. And if you double click
on that it'll bring it up the first
time, it will ask you if you want
to use this, you should say accept and
save and then it shouldn't ask you that
again. If you type your password, it's, blocked
out with little dots and if you save
it, it'll save it. I don't know if
it's the best idea to save it but
not not too bad probably if it's your
own computer. But that's that. Click okay and
then it logs you in and much like
the other one we are here. Unfortunately, this
doesn't allow fancy colors it looks like, which
is too bad but you can still use
the clear, you can use the reset, the
CD command, LS command and so forth you
are logged on officially. And that's how you
do it. To log out just type log
out or control D and that's that. In
fact you are logged out when the little
red minus here is there and then you
can just click actually I think we could
probably click, I'm not even sure, to get
back to the original maybe it's session manager,
there we go. And if you want to
click again you can just do that. So
that's that. How you log on. Thanks.